# LLMTrafficMonitor 
The main goal of this repository is to measure how much Internet traffic is generated by Large Language Models (LLMs) during user interactions. As GenAI tools become widespread, their impact on network load grows.

This repo includes code to estimate traffic per prompt for popular open-source LLMs in 2025. On average, each query-response exchange generates ~7.6 KB of data, comparable to email or web traffic. We argue AI could become the next major driver of Internet traffic.

## Key folders and files in the repository
### Folder: R_running_locally
- responding_agent.R: Implements a responding agent, which processes incoming queries using an local LLM. The script defines a Plumber API endpoint to handle requests, respond to queries, and simulate conversational interactions.
- querying_agent.R: Implements a querying agent that repeatedly prompts the user for a query (until 'Exit' is typed), sends it to a responding agent via an HTTP request, and displays the response.
- querying_agent_math.R: Extracts a set of questions from a JSONL file, then sends these questions to the responding agent via HTTP requests. The querying agent processes the responses for each question and prints the results. 

### Folder: langchain
- Responding_Agent_v2.py: Implements a Flask-based server that handles queries and generates responses using LangChain models.
- Querying_Agent_v2_json.py: Sends queries to a LangChain model, processes responses, and measures request and response sizes.
- langchain_demo.ipynb: Jupter notebook used to test out the LangChain library.

### Folder: packet_capture
- scapy_packet_capture_demo.ipynb: Jupyter notebook that captures packets based on a target IP and port, then prints details about the source and destination IPs, ports, and packet size.
- packet_capture_v2.py: Python script that captures network packets based on a target IP and port, then prints details about the packets.

### Folder: data
- test.jsonl: JSON file containing math questions (obtained from [OpenAI](https://github.com/openai/grade-school-math/tree/master)).

## Contributing
Contributions are welcome! If you have suggestions for improvements or new features, feel free to open an issue or submit a pull request.

## License
This project is licensed under the MIT License. See the [LICENSE](https://github.com/alexgaarciia/LLMTrafficMonitor/blob/main/LICENSE) file for more details.

## References
> **Introducing Large Language Models as the Next Challenging Internet Traffic Source**
> 
> Nataliia Koneva, Alejandro Leonardo García Navarro, Alfonso Sánchez-Macián, José Alberto Hernández, Moshe Zukerman, Óscar González de Dios
> 
> *URL:* [https://arxiv.org/abs/2504.10688](https://arxiv.org/abs/2504.10688)
